_reports_to_congress/2024/02_intro.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: 2023 Report to Congress
short: For the people, by the people
report: 2023
report_title: 2023 Report to Congress
permalink: /report-to-congress/2023/intro
---
## For the people, by the people 

*The U.S. Digital Service (USDS) delivers better government services to the American people through technology and design.* 

### The people at USDS

USDS is a group of skilled technology professionals who work on short-term appointments to implement best practices from the private sector into the public service sector. They aim to improve service delivery to federal employees and millions of Americans by providing new technology perspectives and use their expertise in designing, creating, and implementing appropriate technology solutions. The talented team at USDS possesses unique capabilities, enabling agencies to accomplish their goals and objectives better.

### How USDS works with agencies

Agencies are where the real work happens, and that change happens one step at a time. To support their work and evolution, USDS partners with agencies by embedding small, interdisciplinary teams at the agency, who work hand-in-hand with staff and contractors to deliver critical programs. USDS helps agencies procure and manage their technology systems while building their technical capacity, and learning by doing the work together. USDS transfers knowledge and expertise to agency staff, helps them hire additional talent, evolve their processes, and update expectations. As the agency builds the right capabilities, USDS no longer adds unique value, and the staff are recalled to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned to another program.

Since its founding, USDS has collaborated with 31 federal agencies. It has four types of projects in its portfolio:
-    **Agency transformation**: Agencies looking to modernize or transform their technical capabilities come to USDS for a series of projects and work, including implementation, process evolution, and technical staffing expertise.
-   **Policy implementation consultation**: In its role at the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), USDS offers implementation expertise to colleagues across the Executive Office of the President (EOP) who write policy with technical components.
-    **Program implementation**: Agencies regularly have to stand up new programs or capabilities, and they routinely come to USDS for assistance with doing it well.
-    **Rapid response**: In response to urgent situations, USDS deploys teams quickly across the interagency to solve critical problems. This can be in response to situations such as infant formula shortages or a national security need. 

### The long-term value and impact of USDS

USDS enables the government to consistently deliver digital services to the American public, catalyzing long-term change and resulting in secure, efficient, and mission-serving technology. Some of the short- and long-term impacts include: 

-  A 46.8% increase in customer satisfaction for 180 million annual SSA.gov visitors
-  Prevention of 500,000 children from being incorrectly disenrolled from CHIP/Medicaid
-  Over 3 million Americans auto-renewed for Medicaid coverage across 10 U.S. states, bypassing burdensome paper exercises
-  18.25 million veterans able to use simpler, more accessible tools for health and benefit services
-  Over 749 million free COVID-19 tests delivered, and over 100 million Americans vaccinated
-  130% increase in the number of rural and under-resourced families with broadband through the Affordable Connectivity Program 
-  Scalable, automated public health data infrastructure in more than 30 states, replacing fax machines
-  388 million bottles of formula, imported in a crisis, and deployed to the places that need it most from new data and analytics
-  Support of critical systems that helped 3.6 million student loan borrowers be approved for nearly $132 billion in loan forgiveness
-  850+ acquisition professionals who are now prepared to skillfully and efficiently help the government buy technology products and services, due to their certification through Digital IT Acquisition Professional training

Commit message:

Update from https://github.com/usds/website/commit/3daf26cdc7197eb64ab0b71e86ee49b81dc489c9

_reports_to_congress/2024/02_intro.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: 2024 Report to Congress
short: For the people, by the people
report: 2024
report_title: 2024 Report to Congress
permalink: /report-to-congress/2024/intro
---
## For the people, by the people 

*USDS delivers better government services to the American people through technology and design.* 

### The people at USDS

USDS is a group of skilled technology professionals who work on short-term appointments to implement best practices from the private sector into the federal government. They aim to improve how government services are delivered to millions of Americans and federal employees by providing new technology perspectives and using their expertise in designing, creating, and implementing appropriate technology solutions. The talented team at USDS possesses unique capabilities, enabling agencies to accomplish their goals and objectives better.

### How USDS works with agencies

Agencies are where the real work happens. To support their work and evolution, USDS partners with agencies by assigning small, interdisciplinary teams to work hand-in-hand with agency staff and contractors to deliver critical programs through technology and design. USDS can help an agency procure new technology, improve existing systems, or develop its own technical capacity, and learn by doing the work together. USDS transfers knowledge and expertise to agency staff, helps them hire additional talent, evolves their processes, and updates expectations. As the agency builds the right capabilities, USDS staff are recalled to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned to another project.

Since its founding, USDS has collaborated with 31 federal agencies. It has four types of projects in its portfolio:

-    **Agency transformation**: Agencies looking to modernize or transform their technical capabilities come to USDS for help with implementation, process evolution, and technical staffing expertise.
-   **Policy implementation consultation**: As part of OMB, USDS provides perspective on the technology implications of policy decisions.
-    **Program implementation**: USDS helps agencies design and establish new programs or capabilities.
-    **Rapid response**: In response to urgent situations, USDS deploys teams quickly across the interagency to solve critical problems. This can be in response to situations such as infant formula shortages or a national security need. 

### The long-term value and impact of USDS

USDS enables the government to consistently deliver digital services to the American public, catalyzing long-term change and resulting in secure, efficient, and mission-serving technology. Over the last 10 years, USDS has partnered with agencies to deliver material improvements to the American public. Some of the short- and long-term impacts include: 

-  18.25 million Veterans able to use simpler, more accessible tools for health and benefit services
-  52.8% increase in customer satisfaction for 180 million annual SSA.gov visitorS
-  Over 749 million free COVID-19 tests delivered 
-  130% increase in the number of rural and under-resourced families with broadband internet through the Affordable Connectivity Program 
-  388 million bottles of infant formula, imported in a crisis, and deployed to the places that needed it most based on new data and analytics
-  900+ acquisition professionals who are now prepared to skillfully and efficiently help the government buy technology products and services, due to their certification through Digital IT Acquisition Professional training program (DITAP)

The following examples demonstrate the breadth of issues USDS has been working to address, the diverse range of roles it has played, and the significant impact it has had so far. The 2024 USDS Impact Report outlines ten USDS projects and their implications. Upon reflection of the progress that USDS has made possible, it is evident that there have been tangible improvements in government services. However, more work must be done to enhance government services for the American public.
