_reports_to_congress/2024/07_veterans-affairs.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Ensuring America’s 18.25 million Veterans and their families get access to benefits they’ve earned
short: Veterans Affairs
report: 2023
permalink: /report-to-congress/2023/veterans-affairs/
---
###  Challenge

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Vel pharetra vel turpis nunc. Commodo viverra maecenas accumsan lacus. Tincidunt ornare massa eget egestas purus viverra accumsan in nisl. Dis parturient montes nascetur ridiculus mus mauris vitae ultricies. Facilisis gravida neque convallis a. Felis bibendum ut tristique et egestas quis. Faucibus a pellentesque sit amet porttitor eget dolor morbi non. Mauris rhoncus aenean vel elit scelerisque mauris pellentesque. Quam vulputate dignissim suspendisse in est ante in. Sed risus ultricies tristique nulla aliquet. Morbi blandit cursus risus at ultrices.

### Solution

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Vel pharetra vel turpis nunc. Commodo viverra maecenas accumsan lacus. Tincidunt ornare massa eget egestas purus viverra accumsan in nisl. Dis parturient montes nascetur ridiculus mus mauris vitae ultricies. Facilisis gravida neque convallis a. Felis bibendum ut tristique et egestas quis. Faucibus a pellentesque sit amet porttitor eget dolor morbi non. Mauris rhoncus aenean vel elit scelerisque mauris pellentesque. Quam vulputate dignissim suspendisse in est ante in. Sed risus ultricies tristique nulla aliquet. Morbi blandit cursus risus at ultrices.

###  Impact

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Vel pharetra vel turpis nunc. Commodo viverra maecenas accumsan lacus. Tincidunt ornare massa eget egestas purus viverra accumsan in nisl. Dis parturient montes nascetur ridiculus mus mauris vitae ultricies. Facilisis gravida neque convallis a. Felis bibendum ut tristique et egestas quis. Faucibus a pellentesque sit amet porttitor eget dolor morbi non. Mauris rhoncus aenean vel elit scelerisque mauris pellentesque. Quam vulputate dignissim suspendisse in est ante in. Sed risus ultricies tristique nulla aliquet. Morbi blandit cursus risus at ultrices.

Commit message:

Update from https://github.com/usds/website/commit/3daf26cdc7197eb64ab0b71e86ee49b81dc489c9

_reports_to_congress/2024/07_veterans-affairs.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Ensuring America’s 18.25 million Veterans have access to the benefits they have earned
short: Veterans Affairs
report: 2024
permalink: /report-to-congress/2024/veterans-affairs/
---
######  *The Department of Veterans Affairs*

Services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) are essential to the 18.25 million Veterans and their families in the United States. The Veterans Health Administration, which operates under the VA, is the most extensive healthcare system in the U.S., serving around 9 million Veterans annually through its 1,200 facilities.

The partnership between USDS and the VA began in response to a customer service crisis at the VA. At that time, Veterans were experiencing long waits and obstacles in almost every interaction, from enrolling in benefits to receiving healthcare. In early 2015, USDS began a long-term engagement with the VA to address these issues. Currently, USDS is working with the VA's Office of the CTO to improve Veterans' lives by developing better software using efficient design, engineering, and product management. The most significant and impactful collaborations include the redesign of VA.gov, which receives 20 million site visitors annually, and creating the Health and Benefits Mobile app, which is highly rated and popular. The app provides simplified, personalized access to commonly used services.

###  Impact

VA’s digital modernization work is an important aspect of the agency’s effort to build Veteran trust in the VA. Since the relaunch of VA.gov in 2018, VA’s overall trust score has risen from 70.4% in FY18 to 79.3% at the end of FY23. 

##### VA.gov

- 19 million monthly unique VA.gov users 
- 1.7 million monthly unique signed-in users 
- VA website customer satisfaction has increased by over 12% 

##### Health and Benefits mobile app

- 2.14 million lifetime app downloads
- 960,400 monthly active users 
- 1.4 million monthly appointment detail views
- 4.8-star rating
- 112,000 ratings
