_reports_to_congress/2024/08_covid-tests.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Delivering 749 million free COVID-19 tests
short: COVID tests
report: 2023
permalink: /report-to-congress/2023/covid-tests/
---
###  Challenge

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Vel pharetra vel turpis nunc. Commodo viverra maecenas accumsan lacus. Tincidunt ornare massa eget egestas purus viverra accumsan in nisl. Dis parturient montes nascetur ridiculus mus mauris vitae ultricies. Facilisis gravida neque convallis a. Felis bibendum ut tristique et egestas quis. Faucibus a pellentesque sit amet porttitor eget dolor morbi non. Mauris rhoncus aenean vel elit scelerisque mauris pellentesque. Quam vulputate dignissim suspendisse in est ante in. Sed risus ultricies tristique nulla aliquet. Morbi blandit cursus risus at ultrices.

### Solution

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Vel pharetra vel turpis nunc. Commodo viverra maecenas accumsan lacus. Tincidunt ornare massa eget egestas purus viverra accumsan in nisl. Dis parturient montes nascetur ridiculus mus mauris vitae ultricies. Facilisis gravida neque convallis a. Felis bibendum ut tristique et egestas quis. Faucibus a pellentesque sit amet porttitor eget dolor morbi non. Mauris rhoncus aenean vel elit scelerisque mauris pellentesque. Quam vulputate dignissim suspendisse in est ante in. Sed risus ultricies tristique nulla aliquet. Morbi blandit cursus risus at ultrices.

###  Impact

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Vel pharetra vel turpis nunc. Commodo viverra maecenas accumsan lacus. Tincidunt ornare massa eget egestas purus viverra accumsan in nisl. Dis parturient montes nascetur ridiculus mus mauris vitae ultricies. Facilisis gravida neque convallis a. Felis bibendum ut tristique et egestas quis. Faucibus a pellentesque sit amet porttitor eget dolor morbi non. Mauris rhoncus aenean vel elit scelerisque mauris pellentesque. Quam vulputate dignissim suspendisse in est ante in. Sed risus ultricies tristique nulla aliquet. Morbi blandit cursus risus at ultrices.

Commit message:

Update from https://github.com/usds/website/commit/3daf26cdc7197eb64ab0b71e86ee49b81dc489c9

_reports_to_congress/2024/08_covid-tests.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Delivering 749 million free COVID-19 tests
short: COVID Tests
report: 2024
permalink: /report-to-congress/2024/covid-tests/
---
######  *The United States Postal Service and the Department of Health and Human Services*

In late 2021, a new and more infectious variant of COVID-19 made its way through the U.S. population. In response, the White House initiated an ambitious program that allowed every U.S. household to order free, at-home COVID-19 tests.

USDS collaborated with the United States Postal Service (USPS) and HHS’ Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR) to make the simple, reliable, and accessible technology required to implement this program. The combined teams deployed the USDS model of human-centered design and modern technology to build a simple website that made it quick and easy for the public to order COVID-19 tests.

The launch of COVID.gov/tests was successful, as it processed up to 10 million orders per hour. The simple website interface allowed a variety of houses to use the application and the infrastructure was able to accommodate the significant order volume. 

###  Impact

Within 48 hours, 50% of residential addresses had already ordered a COVID-19 test kit from the site.

- USPS shipped over 749 million COVID-19 test kits out to the American public.
- The site's infrastructure was stable enough to receive more than 58 million COVID-19 test kit orders within the first 48 hours of its launch.
