_reports_to_congress/2024/12_childcare-assistance.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Reducing the burden of child care assistance applications
short: Child Care Assistance Application
report: 2023
permalink: /report-to-congress/2023/childcare/
---
###  Challenge

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Vel pharetra vel turpis nunc. Commodo viverra maecenas accumsan lacus. Tincidunt ornare massa eget egestas purus viverra accumsan in nisl. Dis parturient montes nascetur ridiculus mus mauris vitae ultricies. Facilisis gravida neque convallis a. Felis bibendum ut tristique et egestas quis. Faucibus a pellentesque sit amet porttitor eget dolor morbi non. Mauris rhoncus aenean vel elit scelerisque mauris pellentesque. Quam vulputate dignissim suspendisse in est ante in. Sed risus ultricies tristique nulla aliquet. Morbi blandit cursus risus at ultrices.

### Solution

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Vel pharetra vel turpis nunc. Commodo viverra maecenas accumsan lacus. Tincidunt ornare massa eget egestas purus viverra accumsan in nisl. Dis parturient montes nascetur ridiculus mus mauris vitae ultricies. Facilisis gravida neque convallis a. Felis bibendum ut tristique et egestas quis. Faucibus a pellentesque sit amet porttitor eget dolor morbi non. Mauris rhoncus aenean vel elit scelerisque mauris pellentesque. Quam vulputate dignissim suspendisse in est ante in. Sed risus ultricies tristique nulla aliquet. Morbi blandit cursus risus at ultrices.

###  Impact

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Vel pharetra vel turpis nunc. Commodo viverra maecenas accumsan lacus. Tincidunt ornare massa eget egestas purus viverra accumsan in nisl. Dis parturient montes nascetur ridiculus mus mauris vitae ultricies. Facilisis gravida neque convallis a. Felis bibendum ut tristique et egestas quis. Faucibus a pellentesque sit amet porttitor eget dolor morbi non. Mauris rhoncus aenean vel elit scelerisque mauris pellentesque. Quam vulputate dignissim suspendisse in est ante in. Sed risus ultricies tristique nulla aliquet. Morbi blandit cursus risus at ultrices.

Commit message:

Update from https://github.com/usds/website/commit/3daf26cdc7197eb64ab0b71e86ee49b81dc489c9

_reports_to_congress/2024/12_childcare-assistance.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Reducing the burden of child care assistance applications
short: Child Care Assistance Application
report: 2024
permalink: /report-to-congress/2024/childcare/
---
######  *The Department of Health and Human Services*

The child care assistance program administered by the Office of Child Care (OCC) at HHS helps nearly one million families with lower incomes nationwide pay for child care. Overburdened state, territorial, and tribal public servants are responsible for creating the application, and the process can be complicated for families, which can discourage and delay families receiving the help they need.

To simplify it, USDS partnered with OCC and used human-centered design to create the [Guide to Creating a Family Friendly Child Care Assistance Application](https://childcareta.acf.hhs.gov/creating-family-friendly-child-care-assistance-application?guestaccesstoken=NE5x%2BKGTKsFp9EzK%2F3nkSmYyKq1ztYwcTboI90Z1FcI%3D&docid=2_192c704b9228b4e2abf1ff42bdbf72da7&rev=1). The guide and accompanying sample application reduce the burden on state, territorial, and tribal public servants creating the application and reaching eligible families. 

###  Impact

- In 2023, 7 states and territories adopted practices from this guide to streamline and reduce burden on families applying for child care assistance.
- In July 2023, Health and Human Services and Vice President Harris announced a[ notice of proposed rulemaking](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/11/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-actions-to-lower-child-care-costs-and-support-child-care-providers/) (NPRM) that directly referenced this guide to encourage states to streamline eligibility and enrollment processes for child care assistance.
